the boxing day tsunami
indonesia an undersea earthquake starts
in the morning
its tremors cause a series of tsunami
waves
the largest reaches the height of the
arc to triumph in paris
ones in volcano make a tsunami a
powerful volcanic eruption triggers a
landslide from a 4 000 year old lava
dome
it sweeps through the city of shimabara
and reaches the sea
setting off a mega tsunami the vagin dam
make a tsunami italy a landslide drags
nine billion cubic feet of forest soil
and rock into the lake
a dark wall of water covers the sky over
a tiny village
at the bottom of the veijeon dam then
with a deafening roar
the wave overtops the edge of the dam
taking out
everything in its path mount saint helen
mega tsunami
usa as the volcano erupts
the upper 1500 feet of mount st helen
collapses into a massive landslide part
of this avalanche plunges down
into nearby spirit lake which splashes
the lake waters into a series of waves
almost as tall as the eiffel tower
alaska's lituya bay tsunami
a landslide caused by an earthquake
creates a mega wave
it surges over the headland and washes
away trees plants and soil down to
bedrock
molokai hawaii a third of the east
molokai volcano caves in
and collapses into the pacific ocean
this causes a tsunami
the size of the second tallest building
in the world shanghai tower
the waves reach mexico and california
the yucatan asteroid tsunami the
asteroid which is rumored to have wiped
out dinosaurs
strikes the yucatan peninsula it creates
a mega tsunami
the largest in earth's history the first
waves almost twice
bigger than the world's tallest building
the burj khalifa
hurricane mitch mitch forms in the
western caribbean sea
soon it strengthens to become the eighth
most powerful atlantic hurricane ever
the storm pours four inches of rain per
hour for two days in honduras
it causes terrible mudslides and floods
hurricane
allen rare and extremely powerful the
storm is one of the few to reach
category five
the highest possible it causes more than
two billion dollars in damage
the great hurricane after tearing down
barbados
the storm moves on it strips the bark
off the trees growing on martinique and
st
lucia and travels further this horrific
natural disaster
lasts for six days hurricane dorian
it's the most powerful tropical cyclone
to hit the bahamas
the hurricane flattens most of the
structures on the island
and sweeps them into the sea hurricane
wilma
the storm occurs in the caribbean sea
near jamaica and heads to the west
two days later it gathers enough power
to turn into the most
intense hurricane ever recorded in the
atlantic ocean
hurricane patricia a regular storm
develops a well-defined eye
and turns into a category 5 hurricane
within a mere
24 hours at one point it travels faster
than a ferrari moving at its top speed
it makes patricia the world's most
intense tropical cyclone ever recorded
kamchatka earthquake it happens in the
early morning 80 miles away from the
shores of kamchatka
the earth tremors produce a tsunami the
first two waves are catastrophic
up to 60 feet high the third one's much
weaker
valparaiso earthquake chile it happens
at about 5 a.m
along the boundary of two tectonic
plates the tsunami
triggered by the earthquake wipes out
620 miles of chile's coastline
tohuko earthquake japan the first earth
tremors start at a great underwater
depth
the earthquake is so strong it moves
japan's main island
it shifts the planet on its axis by up
to 10 inches
and increases its rotation speed the
disaster also triggers a tsunami with
133 foot high waves
that travel six miles inland
indian ocean earthquake sumatra a
rupture along
two tectonic plates sets off an undersea
earthquake
it begins at about 8 a.m near northern
sumatra indonesia
it makes the planet vibrate nearly a
half inch
and sits off earthquakes all over the
world up to alaska
good friday earthquake alaska the most
powerful earthquake recorded in north
america
lasts for four minutes and 38 seconds
a 600 mile long crack causes terrible
landslides and a 27-foot tsunami
areas 200 miles away get raised by 30
feet
other places permanently drop eight feet
valdiva chile the great chilean
earthquake starts in the afternoon
and lasts for no less than 10 minutes
the disaster affects an area the size of
california
it triggers tsunamis that reach the
shore of hawaii japan
the philippines australia and new
zealand
the average tornado usually lasts less
than 10 minutes
but there are exceptions el reyno
tornado
it's considered the world's largest
tornado based on width
at its peak the twister reaches two and
a half miles across
the perryville tornado us it occurs at
about 2 am
and starts with snapping hardwood trees
and breaking down stone constructions
then the whirlwind becomes stronger it
levels two-story buildings
flips and tosses cars as if they were
toys
bridge creek moore tornado when the
twister gets into the town of bridge
creek
its width is at its peak one to one and
a half miles
the wind speed of the tornado reaches
more than 300 miles per hour
this natural disaster causes 1 billion
dollars in damage
manitoba canada an outstanding tornado
rages for nearly three hours
it breaks tons of trees and utility
poles damages roads and farmhouses
but miraculously misses every town on
its path
tri-state tornado us the world's longest
lasting single tornado
travels 220 miles through missouri
illinois and
indiana the average tornado's path is
usually no longer than 5 miles
tupelo gainesville us an outbreak that
consists of at least 12
single tornadoes wipes out everything on
its way
the accompanying rainstorms also trigger
severe flash floods that make matters
even worse
valjean landslide italy at 10 pm
a landslide with a volume of 100 great
pyramids of giza
breaks off from the top of monte talk it
falls into the valjean dam reservoir
producing a tsunami wave taller than the
golden gate bridge
yanan china an avalanche of rocks stones
and mud
so big it could fill up sydney harbor
forms a dam
on the jinsha river the hitta river
japan
triggered by a rainstorm 300 000 olympic
swimming pools of debris
flows down before getting stopped by
another earlier landslide
along the way the landslide sweeps two
buses off the road
peru a rock slide dams the rio montenero
a long river running through the center
of peru the whole process takes no more
than three minutes
which means the landslide moves at a
speed of up to 87 miles per hour
it also leaves a trail of debris five
miles long
the usoid dam tajikistan
set off by a magnitude 7.4 earthquake
the rock slide falls into the murgob
river and blocks its flow
that's how the usoid dam one of the
tallest in the world appears
mount saint helens usa at 8 30 a.m
after much build up a volcanic vent
finally gives way
and sits off a catastrophic eruption
which makes the entire
north side of mount st helens fall away
it's the world's largest recorded
landslide
north bonneville us in the middle of the
15th century
a great earthquake occurs an incredible
amount of debris
rushes down from table mountain it
covers more than five square miles
and blocks the columbia river with a dam
200 feet high
and three and a half miles long